my name is sam blonde as jason said uh
on cro of rex uh i uh i just moved to
miami and so this
is is like a marriage of two of my
favorite things miami and saster so uh
as i said just incredibly excited to be
here my topic today is how to set and
hit revenue targets um the background on
this i'll give some context before i
step in
um
i invest in a number of different
companies as an angel investor and try
and catch up with founders pretty
regularly of these companies and over
the course of the last couple months
just with the turn of the year one of
the things that came up on virtually
every call that i had was how should we
be thinking about setting targets this
year that sort of like leading up to the
year and then several subsequent
conversations right after january 1st it
was like uh oh we may be in bad shape on
our target so this concept of setting
and hitting targets just came up very
regularly with founders that i was
talking with seemed like a timely topic
and so uh i'll talk about it a little
bit here on my philosophy and hopefully
it's valuable and excited to answer any
questions that y'all have about 15
minutes from now
so um this may seem obvious but there
are two variables to hitting targets the
first one is where you set the target
and then the second one is how you
perform
as i said may seem a little bit obvious
but uh most people focus um primarily or
almost exclusively on the ladder which
is how you perform today we're mostly
going to be spending time on where you
where you set the target um which is
equally as important of a variable um i
regularly hear folks say things like you
know we missed plan or something like
that so a question that i'll ask you is
well tell me more
say like well you know we grew 10 month
over month there was a deal that pushed
at the end of the month uh and so we we
just came in a little bit short and i
was like okay but it sounds like you're
sort of satisfied with where you
finished it's like yeah we grew 10
percent month over month and then i
asked the question well like maybe you
set the target a little too aggressively
and then founder or sales person or
whoever i'm talking with is like yeah we
probably set the target too aggressively
because we're satisfied with where we
came in we missed the target um so again
we're going to talk a little bit today
about how to set the target and some
philosophy behind that
just a few things to talk about when
setting the target the first one is when
to set your first target
so
when you're a ceo you're oftentimes
closing your first couple deals uh you
don't really need a company revenue
target at that point you're really just
trying to acquire customers find product
market fit uh you're being scrappy doing
what you can to get the business off the
ground when you really need to set your
first target is when you have dedicated
sales people who are focused on revenue
so if you follow jason and zaster um
you've probably heard a number of
different times when you're ready to
hire your first sales rep hire too
and so when you hire these first two
sales reps and they're ready to start
selling they need a target so that's
when you're ready to set your first
target i think the one sort of counter
example to this is there are companies
and brex is one of those these companies
where
the business grows a little bit and they
haven't launched just yet and so you do
a big launch of your website you do a
big pr push and you start acquiring
customers as part of this public launch
um and so in brexit's case we actually
had a couple sales reps before we
created revenue targets because we
hadn't launched yet as a business and so
either one of those events whichever one
uh happens uh second either you're
closing business you have two sales reps
or you launch the company you need to uh
have a revenue target that you're going
after
um initially you want to set targets on
a monthly cadence there's no advantage
early on to setting uh
targets that are farther out into the
future you want to set monthly revenue
targets at rex we launched in june of
2018 we had a june target when june
completed we set our july target when
july completed we set our august target
um we'll talk a little bit about how
this evolves over time but initially
just at a monthly target and start
setting your targets every month going
forward because you don't have enough
data to set targets for a longer time
horizon
and then the last thing
which is a little bit more controversial
than the first two uh is how you set the
number so my philosophy on this again
slightly different from maybe others and
this is where uh might be a little bit
controversial i set the target with 90
confidence that we're able to hit it
um and so i'll give an illustration here
if you're a ceo you have uh it's not
linear so you know three months ago you
closed five five thousand dollars in arr
last month you closed three thousand
dollars in arr this month you closed
seven thousand dollars in ar so a little
bit of variance as a ceo you have a
couple sales reps it's time to set the
first company revenue target
you feel good about the pipeline coming
into the month you've got two sales reps
that are gonna start closing business
you think you can get to ten thousand
dollars in arr in the month my
recommendation given like that
environment is to set the target more
conservatively set it at something like
eight thousand dollars if you feel
really good about getting to ten set it
at eight
uh you have ninety percent confidence
you're going to get there you might be
able to get to ten but be more
conservative and just make sure that you
get to the number that month i'll talk a
little bit about why in just a moment so
why not set aggressive targets from day
one
and the biggest reason is you want to
create a culture of winning and you want
to set the tone for that culture of
winning early um and so on this slide
you'll see a couple different visuals
i'm originally from kansas city i now
live in miami so of course i had to
incorporate the chiefs into the slide
deck you're from kansas city you're sort
of obsessed with the chiefs and you can
just imagine what the chiefs are the
winningest team in the nfl over the
course of the last four years and so you
can just imagine what the locker room is
like for the kansas city chiefs um
players are helping each other there's a
lot of effort that goes into
uh uh
improving um you you go into the games
thinking that you're gonna win it's just
a really positive environment and energy
that exists in that locker room and you
compare that to the detroit lions who i
apologize for anybody uh from detroit um
they are the most losing team in the nfl
over the course of the last four years i
don't know if there's um glare from the
miami sunshine but uh the picture is a
detroit lions fan with a bag over his
head that says owen 16. and so you can
imagine what a detroit lions locker room
is like where you have uh the
expectation that you're going to lose a
team players are fighting with one
another coaches are getting fired um
there's just one huge difference between
the nfl and these teams right here that
uh you know huge difference between uh
the chiefs and and the lions the lions
can't lose their first few games and
then say you know what we need to get a
w we're going to go play a college team
next week
but we actually can because we set the
target and so as you see here the
question is what do you do when you miss
a target and so back to the example that
i gave uh just a moment ago you set the
target at eight thousand dollars and you
come in at six you missed the target
just make sure you set the next target
so that you hit it um because again you
want to create this environment where
the team feels successful everybody
feels like they're winning and there are
long-term uh uh gains that you realize
from that one that we'll talk about uh
momentarily but the major takeaway here
is
you control where you set the target so
set the target to be hit um and again
the logic here is you want to create a
culture of winning uh you want really
positive work environment um and
you will pay dividends over time from
realizing that um the next next slide
talks a little bit about how does
setting targets evolve over time
so the first one is time horizons
increase talk a little bit about setting
targets on a monthly basis um that
starts to extend over time so brex
launched in june of 2018 we have monthly
targets for june july august september
october november december the year of
2019 we switched to quarterly targets um
and so we said at the beginning of 2019
where do we want to be in the month of
march where do we want to finish march
now that doesn't mean that we didn't
have january and february targets we did
it just means that we set targets three
months in advance because we had a
little bit more historical data going
into 2019 then we could use the leverage
um a few months out we did the same
thing for the rest of 2019 we set
quarterly targets and then 2020 we moved
to annual targets again a year and a
half of data a lot more data we felt
comfortable with setting a target on an
annual basis rather than the monthly or
quarterly uh basis that we had done
previously
the next one
is that unit economics start to matter
you know when you're that ceo and you
close five thousand dollars of ar your
first month and seven thousand dollars
the next month you're not thinking about
the customer acquisition cost you have
no idea what your lifetime value of the
customer is but over time you start to
understand those things and you need to
build a viable business those things
start to need to be incorporated in the
revenue targets um and so uh that's
something that again changes over time
from that first target that we talked
about setting
the next one is investing in sales ops
and or finance
to move from an art to more of a science
target setting is super important and
i'll actually incorporate this with
using historical data to be more
aggressive
once you have more historical data
you'll really understand where you can
come in plus or minus five percent and
so you can start to be more aggressive
and push the team to get further than
you were when it was just the ceo sort
of shot in the dark where do we think
we're gonna come in and a lot of that
effort comes from uh sales ops and
finance that look into that historical
data look at the pipeline and they
incorporate that into target setting
where it becomes far more of the science
than it is the original art
um and then the last one is actually the
second to last one will tell a story um
you want to keep the same winning
philosophy so
uh
even as you're setting targets in future
quarters future years you want to make
sure that you're setting those targets
to be hit again it creates the same
environment that we talked about earlier
this culture of winning very positive
people helping one another high fives in
the office uh just a lot of positive
benefits that come out of that
the one story i wanted to tell
is on the bullet point of talk to your
board about their expectations so i
talked to one founder um this was in
early february
and he had called me and they had
finished they just crushed it of course
i'm not going to name the company
2021 they went from 2 million in arr to
10 million in arr
and he had called me after his january
board meeting he said he went into the
board meeting said i have a problem sam
my problem is i went into the board
meeting
i set the target for this year at 40
million dollars in arr so we were going
to go from 10 billion in arr to 40
million dollars in ar
and he said i went in there thinking the
board was going to like start clapping
and celebrating with how excited they
were about this plan that i had put
together to go from 10 to 40 and he said
i was met with the exact opposite people
looked at me like i was crazy i was
gonna burn way too much money
and i was setting the team up for
failure because they didn't believe we
were gonna get to 40 million dollars in
arr they said okay um and he was like so
and there's another problem we're only
in february and i don't think we're
gonna get to 40 million dollars and they
are already more so i was like okay and
he was like so what should i do
and i was like well what was the
feedback that the board gave you on the
target and he was like well you know
they sort of thought that uh we could
come in at something like 20 28 million
dollars in ar that was their expectation
super successful year go from 10 to 20
10 to 28. um 40 is crazy and i was like
all right well it seems like you got a
little bit of a free pass here just
reach out to the board say i've heard
your feedback we're going to move the
target to 28 million based on your
recommendation and uh that's what we're
going to shoot for and then you sort of
solve the problem of the board thinking
you're crazy but also set realistic
targets internally and my point in
saying all of that
is
there was no advantage for this ceo to
set the target at 40 million dollars in
the first place what he should have done
with with hindsight is reached out to
the board before the meeting said what
does a successful 2022 look like to you
all they would have told them 28 million
dollars and then there's no
28 million dollars in arr then there's
no advantage for you to come in with a
higher target than that
and so talk to your board about their
expectations uh one of the suggestions
in terms of how setting targets evolves
over time um
talked a lot about
setting targets two variables where you
set the target how you perform
we'll talk a little bit about improving
performance to target there are a
million things that we can talk about
just performance related but i wanted to
stick to
specific sort of target related
performance uh topics here the first one
is consistent visibility into the
targets themselves
we do a weekly monday morning meeting
every team presents the targets that
they have for that respective months in
the all hands meetings at the company we
talk about what the monthly revenue
target is for the company um and we have
uh
business reviews on on a weekly basis
within the business also just constant
visibility and tracking performance to
these targets so that there's there's
just um total
recognition on what what the company and
what you're shooting for
the next one is celebrating the wins so
uh
winning is amazing it's more amazing
when you get a lot of recognition for
doing it and so uh you make sure that
you talk about how many months in a row
you have hit the target you talk about
how impressive the growth has been at
the beginning of every all hands you
clap for hitting the last month's
revenue target and again you just sort
of create a really positive environment
where you're celebrating the wins you're
taking pride in your win loss record
um quick other story um it rex we
started these monthly revenue targets in
june of 2018. the first target that we
missed was november of 2019 it was
thanksgiving thanksgiving fell on a day
where the last day of the month was the
sunday and so we didn't have as many
selling days because of that um and so
the first time we ever missed a target
with something like you know 16 or 17
months in and the team
would take pride in being like 14-0 we
hit 14 revenue targets in a row we've
got to get to 15 and when we were close
there were times where people would be
in the office the last day of the month
may have been on a saturday the whole
team comes in the office because we
didn't want to break our losing streak
we wanted to get to 15-0 i mean so you
drive a lot of behavior by creating this
cultural thing and taking pride in your
win-loss record where people do things
that they wouldn't otherwise do
especially if you know whether you you
hit or miss it's like you know we've got
a history of missing some targets we've
got a history of hitting others so um
again huge dividends that uh uh pay from
hitting your revenue targets and
creating that type of culture
and the last one that i'll say in terms
of uh improving performance to target
make sure that your team and individual
targets are consistent with the company
targets i think the last thing that you
want is the company being successful the
company hitting revenue targets and
having a sales team or a bunch of sales
reps that are missing their target and
so philosophically um you want some some
consistency with those targets but also
you want something like 70 of your sales
team over target or over quota so you
just imagine the environment that exists
when the company's hitting their revenue
targets the sales team is hitting
targets you have 7 out of 10 people on
the sales team hitting their targets
people are making money you're paying
out at like 110 to quota and you just
want to create this environment where
everybody feels like they are successful
and they are winning and you control so
much of that through where you set the
company target through where you set
foot and so you can really manufacture
the environment taking back to the slide
with the chiefs on it you can
manufacture that um with the way that
you think about uh setting targets
um which leads us to the second big
point and then we'll talk about a little
bit of a recap your business will
actually grow much faster with the
winning culture and it's
counter-intuitive if you set a target
that is higher um you may think that
that's going to drive
more behavior and ultimately drive
higher performance from your team but if
you're missing targets it's going to do
the exact opposite and so by setting
targets that you can hit creating a
winning culture you're actually going to
grow the business so much faster that if
you set these more aggressive targets
the team isn't hitting them people are
down on themselves and it's not an
environment that anybody wants to be in
and so just a quick recap before brian
comes up and we have some questions so
the first one when it comes to hitting
revenue targets where you set the target
is as important as how you perform again
back to those two variables the second
one is um it's very difficult to turn
around a losing culture so set the tone
early set targets to be hit and really
reinforce and celebrate when you hit
those revenue targets
the last one or the third one is your
business will grow faster if you're able
to create a culture of winning we talked
about that on the previous slide
and then finally make sure that your
company targets are consistent with
individual and team targets and so the
company is winning the individual teams
are winning and your reps are winning
all at the same time there's no
discrepancy there between the company
being successful but people may be on
the sales team not making as much money
or not getting their photo
all right that's the
15 or 20 minutes
thank you so much
[Music]
you